New python manual (#372)
neo4j/driver-documentation: python-manual/modules/ROOT/pages/connect.adoc

= Connection

Once you have xref:install.adoc#install-driver[installed the driver] and have xref:install.adoc#get-an-instance[a running Neo4j instance], you are ready to connect your application to the database.

== Connect to the database

You connect to a database by creating a <<Driver>> object and providing a URL and an authentication token.

[source,python]
----
from neo4j import GraphDatabase

# URI examples: "neo4j://localhost", "neo4j+s://xxx.databases.neo4j.io"
URI = "<URI to Neo4j database>"
AUTH = ("<Username>", "<Password>")

with GraphDatabase.driver(URI, auth=AUTH) as driver: # <1>
    driver.verify_connectivity() # <2>
----

> Creating a `Driver` instance *(1)* only provides information on _how_ to access the database, but does not actually _establish_ a connection. Connection is instead deferred to when the first query is executed. To verify immediately that the driver can connect to the database (valid credentials, compatible versions, etc), use the `.verify_connectivity()` method *(2)* after initializing the driver.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creating a `Driver` instance *(1)* only provides information on _how_ to access the database, but does not actually _establish_ a connection. 
Connection is instead deferred to when the first query is executed. 
To verify immediately that the driver can connect to the database (valid credentials, compatible versions, etc), use the `.verify_connectivity()` method *(2)* after initializing the driver.
```

> Both the creation of a `Driver` object and the connection verification can raise a number of different link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/api/python-driver/current/api.html#errors[exceptions]. Since error handling can get quite verbose, and a connection error is a blocker for any subsequnt task, the most common choice is to let the program crash should an exception occurr during connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both the creation of a `Driver` object and the connection verification can raise a number of different link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/api/python-driver/current/api.html#errors[exceptions]. 
Since error handling can get quite verbose, and a connection error is a blocker for any subsequent task, the most common solution is to let the program crash if an exception occurs during connection.
```

`Driver` objects are _immutable_, _thread-safe_, and fairly _expensive to create_.

> Share them across threads (but not across processes!) and use xref:transactions#impersonation[impersonation] to query the database with a different user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Share them across threads (but not across processes) and use xref:transactions#impersonation[impersonation] to query the database with a different user.
```

If you want to alter a `Driver` configuration, you will need to create a new object.

== Close connections

> Always close `Driver` objects to free up all allocated resources, even upon unsuccessful connection or runtime errors. Either instantiate the `Driver` object using the `with` statement, or call the `Driver.close()` method explicitly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Always close `Driver` objects to free up all allocated resources, even upon unsuccessful connection or runtime errors. 
Either instantiate the `Driver` object using the `with` statement, or call the `Driver.close()` method explicitly.
```
